.TH HWINFO 8 "June 2016" "hwinfo" "System configuration"
.\"
.nh
.SH NAME
hwinfo \- probe for hardware
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hwinfo [
.I OPTIONS
.B ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hwinfo
is used to probe for the hardware present in the system. It can be used to
generate a system overview log which can be later used for support.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
Note that running \fBhwinfo\fR without any options is roughly equivalent
to 'hwinfo --all --log=-'.
.TP
\fB--<\f[BI]HARDWARE_ITEM\fB>\fR
This option can be given more than once.
Probe for a particular \fIHARDWARE_ITEM\fR. Available hardware items are:

all, arch, bios, block, bluetooth, braille, bridge, camera, cdrom, chipcard,
cpu, disk, dsl, dvb, fingerprint, floppy, framebuffer, gfxcard, hub, ide,
isapnp, isdn, joystick, keyboard, memory, mmc-ctrl, modem, monitor, mouse, netcard,
network, partition, pci, pcmcia, pcmcia-ctrl, pppoe, printer, redasd,
reallyall, scanner, scsi, smp, sound, storage-ctrl, sys, tape, tv, uml, usb,
usb-ctrl, vbe, wlan, xen, zip

Note that if this option is missing, no hardware probing will be done!
.TP
\fB--short\fR
Show only a summary. Use this option in addition to a hardware probing
option.
.TP
\fB--listmd\fR
Normally hwinfo does not report RAID devices. Add this option to see them.
.TP
\fB--only \fIDEVNAME\fR
This option can be given more than once. If you add this option
only entries in the device list matching \fIDEVNAME\fR will be shown.
Note that you also have to specify --<\fIHARDWARE_ITEM\fR> to trigger
any device probing.
.TP
\fB--save-config \fISPEC\fR
Store config for a particular device below /var/lib/hardware. \fISPEC\fR
can be a device name, an UDI, or 'all'. This option must be given in addition to
a hardware probing option.
.TP
\fB--show-config \fIUDI\fR
Show saved config data for a particular device.
.TP
\fB--map\fR
If disk names have changed (e.g. after a kernel update) this prints a list
of disk name mappings. Note that you must have used --save-config at some
point before for this can work.
.TP
\fB--debug \fIN\fR
Set debug level to \fIN\fR. The debug info is shown only in the log file.
If you specify a log file, the debug level is implicitly set to a reasonable value
(N is a bitmask of individual flags).
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Increase verbosity. Only together with --map.
.TP
\fB--log \fIFILE\fR
Write log info to \fIFILE\fR.
Don't forget to also specify --<\fIHARDWARE_ITEM\fR> to trigger any device probing.
.TP
\fB--dump-db \fIN\fR
Dump hardware data base. \fIN\fR is either 0 for the external data base in
/var/lib/hardware, or 1 for the internal data base.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Print libhd version.
.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print usage.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBhwprobe\fR can hold a comma-separated list of probing flags preceded by '+'
or '-' to be turned on or off. To get a complete list of supported flags,
run 'hwinfo -all' (note: not '--all') and look at the top of the output.

hwinfo also looks at /proc/cmdline for a \fBhwprobe\fR option.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
- show all disks
hwinfo --disk
.TP
- just an overview
hwinfo --short --block
.TP
- show a particular disk
hwinfo --disk --only /dev/sdb
.TP
- save disk config state
hwinfo --disk --save-config=all
.TP
- try 4 graphics card ports for monitor data (default: 3)
hwprobe=bios.ddc.ports=4 hwinfo --monitor
.TP
- monitor detection runs the Video BIOS to get the monitor data; dump a complete BIOS code execution trace to the log
hwprobe=bios.ddc.ports=1,x86emu=trace:dump:trace.only=0:dump.only=0 \
hwinfo --monitor --log=foo
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/var/lib/hardware/hd.ids\fR
External hardware data base (in readable text form). Try the --dump-db option to see the format.
.TP
\fB/var/lib/hardware/udi\fR
Directory where persistent config data are stored (see --save-config option).
.\"
.SH BUGS
Not all hardware can be detected.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
More documentation in /usr/share/doc/packages/hwinfo.
.br
Source repository: git://git.opensuse.org/projects/hwinfo.git.
.\"
